In this chapter we are going to talk about computer vision.
OK we are going to focus on how to detect human faces.
But basically with the help of these approaches we can detect the objects we want.
For example we are able to detect cars.
We are able to detect animals.
We are able to detect horses pedestrians and so on.
So this is why computer vision is extremely important.
And basically self-driving cars relies heavily on computer wisdom.
So far we have been dealing with known datasets no matter we have been talking about linear regression
logistic regression Navy based classifiers or supporting actor machines.
We knew the underlying data sets.
For example when dealing with hand with 10 digits we have these missed dataset and we know that there
are 28 by 28 big solids images.
We know that these are going to be handwritten digits.
So there are 10 output clauses.
0 1 2 3 up to 9.
So basically we know what are we looking for.
We have a data set with 28 by 28 big source images.
We have 10 output classes and we know for certain that within this dataset there are going to be hands
with 10 digits.
These are not going to be hand written characters.
These are not going to be images of cars or animals for example where we know the underlying data set.
It is the same when dealing we face recognition so not face detection but face recognition we have this
Olivetti data set containing 64 by 64 pixels images and we know for certain that these images are human
faces and the aim is to learn the most relevant features of these given faces in order to be able to
recognize them.
So that's the main difference between supervised learning algorithms and a computer vision that as far
as computer vision is concerned we are after a general solution if we have a given image we want to
make sure the algorithm is able to detect and recognize objects.
For example human faces cars or horses.
So what is the main difference if we have nice data set we know for certain that these are going to
be digits.
So we are able to tune in machine learning algorithms or now Real Networks accordingly.
We know for certain that these are going to be handwritten digits.
If we take a look at the second image the aim of the algorithm is to detect human faces.
But this image doesn't contain human faces exclusivity.
There are several boatloads of mineral water.
OK.
There's some cable there's a microphone in the center of the image.
So there are lots of lots of objects that are not faces as you can see as far as handwritten digit recognition
is concerned.
We know for certain that this data set is not going to contain different objects.
This dataset is about handwritten digits.
On the other hand when dealing with computer vision where we are after a human faces but the given image
can contain other objects as well.
So basically we have to know that OK a given region of the image contains a human face.
And we have to know that other parts of the image do not contain human faces.
OK so that's why computer region and object detection is a much harder problem than supervised learning
algorithm.
We have been discussing so far.
So this is what we are going to talk about in the next lectures.
Thanks for watching.